Hello and welcome back to the course on databases.
Today we're talking about the full outer join.
So what is the full outer join and what does it do to our tables.
That's a question for today.
And the first thing that I'd like to mention is a full a full outer join is a very very rare species.
You won't see it's used very often and just because of it's the way it's structured and the way exactly
what it does with the tables.
So let's have a look on an example so we're going to take this inner join it to copy it.
But this one is a fool outer join hands now instead of just believe everything as is and here we'll
just say full hour and let's go ahead and run this and see what we get.
So there we go we've got a full outer join and let's have a look at what it does where we talked about
the theory behind it.
But here we see it in practice so as you can see full outer join takes these two tables the pets table
and the procedures history table and put them side by side and word can match it does match where it
can't match.
It keeps the rows blank it keeps those cells blank so you can see here.
Here you got all of the.
So here you basically what it did it took if you look above this line above this row you'll see that
it took the table or the procedures history table and then where it could it matched it to the Petz
table and then whatever didn't get matched in that part.
All of the pets got place here.
It doesn't really matter as we discussed and scaled up in the order of the rows doesn't mean that it
could be completely jumbled up but that's the point.
The bottom line is that it basically took these two tables.
Tried to match them up as best as it could where it couldn't match them up.
It just left the unmatched columns blank or rows that didn't get matched the columns that are empty.
They were left blank.
So basically it's kind of like it's a bit it's different to a left and right and so I left.
So we discussed left join is the one that you'll be using most commonly.
And it keeps this table the one on the left completely and then it only takes the rows that match up
from this table right join does the opposite it keeps this table completely and then only keeps the
matching rows from this table.
Then if you are in a inner join only keeps the matching rows from both tables so trims the fat is like
a live.
But trim the fat completely So there's anything that doesn't match gets removed whereas an outer join
is like is the opposite of an inner join in doesn't trim anything at all it's it takes whatever is on
the left when I was on the right and matches them up as best I can and doesn't trim.
And you think they're at all.
So there you go that's how a full hour join works most commonly in practice left join is used for my
experience then comes probably an inner join and a full outer join is much much more rare than those
two.
So hopefully you enjoyed this tutorial.
I look forward to seeing you next time.
And until then happy analyzing.